learn/resources/index.md, before:

Here you will find the online resources that detail the content that will be
covered in our [[..]] events. If you have missed a session and would like to
catch up then feel free to do so. You can also practice / read ahead if you
would prefer to do that. **A quick warning however:** If you do choose to look
ahead in the resources, and manage to learn everything, you may end up becoming
a helper...

**Note: Throughout the course being run, we will be uploading more and more content
here.**

## Content covered in sessions so far:

If you haven't been attending our sessions, or are behind, don't worry. You can
come along and work from the start, or from where you currently are. Helpers
will be available to come around and help you when you get there!

### [[lesson_0]]

### [[lesson_1]]

### [[lesson_2]]

### [[lesson_3]]

### [[lesson_4]]

<!--## Content that is yet to be covered:-->

## Learn out-side of our course

There are a large number of good online resources where you can learn python.
If you are interested in expanding your knowledge outside of our lessons, maybe
one of these two websites could be up for the challenge:

* [Codecademy.com](http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/python): Online interactive
  lessons where you enter code and it checks that you have completed each task.
* [Learn Python The Hard Way](http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/) - a free
  online book by Zed Shaw. He also has a number of other online books if you
  are interested in learning any other language:
  [http://learncodethehardway.org/](http://learncodethehardway.org/)

If you have any other suggestions for good online resources, be sure to let Sam
know!

## Contributors

The content of this course has been inspired by the brilliant resources
available from [CodeClub.org.uk](https://www.codeclub.org.uk/about).

The course itself (and the resources you see before you) have been written and
maintained by [Sam Lanning (President 2013-2014)](http://samlanning.com),
[Ashok Menon](https://github.com/asQuirreL) and
[James Thompson](https://github.com/JamesHub) with help from
[Elliot Prior (Gaming Officer 2013-2014)](http://quogu.com).

Commit message:

Moved around lessons to fit better

learn/resources/index.md, after:

Here you will find the online resources that detail the content that will be
covered in our [[..]] events. If you have missed a session and would like to
catch up then feel free to do so. You can also practice / read ahead if you
would prefer to do that. **A quick warning however:** If you do choose to look
ahead in the resources, and manage to learn everything, you may end up becoming
a helper...

**Note: Throughout the course being run, we will be uploading more and more content
here.**

## Course Content:

If you haven't been attending our sessions, or are behind, don't worry. You can
come along and work from the start, or from where you currently are. Helpers
will be available to come around and help you no matter which stage you're at!

*Note: The course has been moved around a little (the text based adventure game
has been moved further on)*

### [[lesson_0]]

### [[lesson_1]]

### [[lesson_2]]

### [[lesson_3]]

### [[lesson_4]]

### [[lesson_5]]

<!--## Content that is yet to be covered:-->

## Learn out-side of our course

There are a large number of good online resources where you can learn python.
If you are interested in expanding your knowledge outside of our lessons, maybe
one of these two websites could be up for the challenge:

* [Codecademy.com](http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/python): Online interactive
  lessons where you enter code and it checks that you have completed each task.
* [Learn Python The Hard Way](http://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/) - a free
  online book by Zed Shaw. He also has a number of other online books if you
  are interested in learning any other language:
  [http://learncodethehardway.org/](http://learncodethehardway.org/)

If you have any other suggestions for good online resources, be sure to let Sam
know!

## Contributors

The content of this course has been inspired by the brilliant resources
available from [CodeClub.org.uk](https://www.codeclub.org.uk/about).

The course itself (and the resources you see before you) have been written and
maintained by [Sam Lanning (President 2013-2014)](http://samlanning.com),
[Ashok Menon](https://github.com/asQuirreL) and
[James Thompson](https://github.com/JamesHub) with help from
[Elliot Prior (Gaming Officer 2013-2014)](http://quogu.com).
