learn/index.md, before:

[meta title="Learn to Code" /]

This year, CompSoc have decided to do something new, and we are hosting our
first &quot;Learn to Code&quot; course. There will be events each staturday
throughout Michaelmas. These are introductory events, taylored for people
who **have never programmed before** or have only just got started.

Sessions will be a mixture of talks and workshops, and will be hosted by
members of the society. You will be learning programming using Python, which
is a nice introductory language, and we will also be teaching some higher level
concepts about computer science.

Anyone of any skill is welcome to come to the events (maybe you already know
how to program but want to learn python, or think some of the talks will be
interesting). And one last thing, **Remember to bring your laptop with you!**

## Facebook Groups:

We have two groups on facebook for this course, that anyone is wecome to join.

The first is a group for anyone who is coming to any of the events to learn,
you'll be able to ask questions and get help from volunteers and helpers who
have also joined the group outside of session time.

The second group is for anyone who would like to take part in helping organise
and host the events of this course. If you join this group, we encourage you to
join the first one.

[embed page="facebook_links" /]

## Scheduled Events:

[events tags="learn" /]

Commit message:

added link to resources from main learn to code page

learn/index.md, after:

[meta title="Learn to Code" /]

This year, CompSoc have decided to do something new, and we are hosting our
first &quot;Learn to Code&quot; course. There will be events each staturday
throughout Michaelmas. These are introductory events, taylored for people
who **have never programmed before** or have only just got started.

Sessions will be a mixture of talks and workshops, and will be hosted by
members of the society. You will be learning programming using Python, which
is a nice introductory language, and we will also be teaching some higher level
concepts about computer science.

Anyone of any skill is welcome to come to the events (maybe you already know
how to program but want to learn python, or think some of the talks will be
interesting). And one last thing, **Remember to bring your laptop with you!**

## Online Resources:

We have the content that will be covered in the course available online here:
[[resources]].

## Facebook Groups:

We have two groups on facebook for this course, that anyone is wecome to join.

The first is a group for anyone who is coming to any of the events to learn,
you'll be able to ask questions and get help from volunteers and helpers who
have also joined the group outside of session time.

The second group is for anyone who would like to take part in helping organise
and host the events of this course. If you join this group, we encourage you to
join the first one.

[embed page="facebook_links" /]

## Scheduled Events:

[events tags="learn" /]
