events/tags/geek_night.md, before:

Our Weekly-Geek Nights are an opportunity to spend the evening hanging out with
people who appreciete the finer things in life! They tend to mainly be sitting
around chatting about various topics (anything from technology, to psycology,
politics to meditation, although granted, there are a LOT of conversations
about technology).

Every Geek night, CompSoc buys food and refreshements for those attending, and
they immidiately follow our weekly "Learn to Code" events:
[[/learn|ox.compsoc.net/learn]]

Some of the things that sometimes occur during Geek Nights include:

* Card Games.
* Online Games (usually DOTA).
* Nerf Gun Fights.
* [Rip-Stiking](https://www.google.com/search?q=ripstik&tbm=isch) to Daft
  Punk's R.A.M.
* Listening to Music and sharing our music collections.
* Watching Hours of Youtube Videos.
* Watching Movies (or Dr. Who).
* Flying 4-Channel R.C. Helicopters.
* Ordering something other than Dominos to eat.
* Heated debates about non-technical topics.

And of course... plenty of chatting!

Come along, you may just like it! =)

Commit message:

Modified website to reflect geek night being members only

events/tags/geek_night.md, after:

**Note: As of Hilary 2014, this is a members only event.**

Our Weekly-Geek Nights are an opportunity to spend the evening hanging out with
people who appreciete the finer things in life! They tend to mainly be sitting
around chatting about various topics (anything from technology, to psycology,
politics to meditation, although granted, there are a LOT of conversations
about technology).

Every Geek night, CompSoc buys food and refreshements for those attending, and
they immidiately follow our weekly "Learn to Code" events:
[[/learn|ox.compsoc.net/learn]]

Some of the things that sometimes occur during Geek Nights include:

* Card Games.
* Online Games (usually DOTA).
* Nerf Gun Fights.
* [Rip-Stiking](https://www.google.com/search?q=ripstik&tbm=isch) to Daft
  Punk's R.A.M.
* Listening to Music and sharing our music collections.
* Watching Hours of Youtube Videos.
* Watching Movies (or Dr. Who).
* Flying 4-Channel R.C. Helicopters.
* Ordering something other than Dominos to eat.
* Heated debates about non-technical topics.

And of course... plenty of chatting!

Come along, you may just like it! =)
